---
layout: post
title: Mongo
tags:
- mongodb
---

I saw your posting on the Node web site and decided to drop you a note about myself.  
Your project looks cool.  I have been programming in Node for about one year and
Javascript for about seven years.

I  am extremely impressed with the management team at 10gen.  I feel they have the
know how and technology prowess to continue to make MongoDb even more successful
than it is today.  From a strategic point of view I have decided to focus on three
core Node technologies as a basis moving forward.  MongoDb is at the top of my list.  
It is even more at the top of my list now that Mongoose has been solidified as
the de facto way to talk to MongoDb via Node.

For the past several months I have been developing a fairly large scale Node project
based on MongoDb and I have chosen Mongoose as my object modeling tool to talk to
MongoDb.  I could not be more happy with the product and the support I have
received via reading the Google group postings. The email list is a great source
of information in better understanding not only Node, MongoDb but also Mongoose.  

One other nice thing about MongoDb is the core driver Mongoose sits on top of.  
The node-mongodb-native driver written by Christian Amor Kvalheim is well tested
with a clean architecture.  Plenty of support from many different sources allows
for fast development and robustness.  In the earlier days of my MongoDb projects
I liked to implement two versions of my code.  One version that talks to MongoDb
via Christian’s driver and the other via Mongoose.  It allowed me to better
understand performance issues and ease of coding and design understanding
both worlds.  I am excited especially about both the future of Node and MongoDb.

My two core areas of domain knowledge is finance and bioinformatics.  These are
the areas I have chosen to concentrate in.  In both of these
 areas search is the basis for what makes technologies tick.  For this reason ,
 I spent several weeks closely analyzing MongoDb’s source code, especially the way
 they do indexing and the code behind the B-tree implementation.  
 Luckily, this code is open source so I believe the core persistence algorithm
 and B-tree implementation inside Mongo makes the software very valuable from
 many points of view.

While I was at Caltech I implemented a fairly large scale Bioinformatics system
first in Django Python and the second version was in Ruby on
 Rails.  The project is deployed on Amazon EC2 and allows users to launch new
 instances automagically via the internet so that they can
 experiment with new protein interaction networks.

The source code for the project is located on Github here :

Github CRdata project

In the past, I have also worked on open source equity trading systems written in Java.
So my 4 core programming languages besides Javascript is Java, Python, Ruby, and PHP.

I look forward to a conversation with you some time in the future to see if there
are any synergies between our two interests.
