---
layout: post
title: Clarinet
tags:
- clarinet
---

I enjoy working on both the server side and the client side.  
The beauty of Node.js is that it allows you to move between the two sides
pretty easily.

I spend most of my time on the back end building and consuming RESTful APIs.  
I spend most of my time first working on these two products which do most of the work.

https://github.com/isaacs/sax-js
https://github.com/dscape/clarinet

There is an excellent of example of Node.js streaming inside clarinet that allows
you to do many different things with the Twitter search API.  This API is magnificent
because it allows you to very quickly find people and companies that are relevant to
the types of information that I want to index.

Once the APIs have been consumed then they are stored and indexed in both Mongo and
Redis.  I use Redis to quickly build indices of the data I am interested in
searching across.

On the front end I am biased towards Backbone and Bootstrap.  Most of the work
I do with Backbone enables me to quickly mesh my back end schemas with my front
end data structures.  Most of the time these data structures and events are consumed
by D3.

D3 is very cool and I have been programming in it for quite some time.  
In fact, D3 used to be called Protovis and that is where I started with building
Javascript visualization frameworks.

I look forward to a conversation with you to see if there are interesting ideas
that we can work on together.
